Hey, everyone.
We are back at it again.
And today we're going to learn about site maps.
So before we even get into creating them, we're going to talk a little bit about the anatomy and why
they're so useful.
And yes, they are still useful.
So the big question is people still use site maps.
Of course I do.
It's not just limited to information architecture.
Everyone should use site maps, especially designers.
They help provide structure for your product.
Like, look at this.
We have the primary navigation or secondary navigation.
We can really plan out all the different navigation schemes within our product so that maps help a lot.
So what are they?
Site maps are hierarchical diagrams of a website or an application that shows how pages are prioritized.
I want you to think about the last lesson that we went through.
User flows that we did prior are kind of like a street view of what we were discovering in terms of
how the user should achieve goals and where we discover different types of content we needed.
You remember this user flow over here.
This is making a purchase and we discovered a lot of different things we discovered like the different
steps that it took to actually complete a purchase.
We discover different types of micro interactions, all the different close up details that we didn't
necessarily know before.
Now, a site map is essentially a bird's eye view.
This way we can take an early glance of what our product looks like from the treetops.
So when do we use sight maps?
Well, site maps are generally used in the beginning or really early on in the design process, like
right after discovery or kick offs, right after you get all that information from your clients or from
your product team, kind of like what we're doing right now with application that we're trying to build.
They'll really help us when we need to start working on our wireframes.